#summary Pako commands documentation

= Commands = 

*Here are listed all the available commands for Pako (02-09-2008)*

*Please pay attention on this:*
all the listed commands are used with Pako's original {{{ * }}} prefix,

but the prefix can be changed any moment by bot administrator.
*The "()" means a variant of parameter to use It's not used in command!*
----

Volumes  available:
 * admin
 * muc
 * misc
 * defg
 * dict
 * user
 * web

----

= Admin (Bot administrators only) = 

----
{{{
*admin list
}}}
Shows to user the list of commands in "admin" volume.
----
{{{
*admin jid 
}}}
Shows the JID of bot.
{{{
*admin jid <new_jid>
}}}
Sets the JID of bot to <new_jid> - any real JID of format: user@server.domain/resource
----
{{{
*admin password
}}}
Shows to user the password from bot's JID.
{{{
*admin password <new_password>
}}}
Sets the password from bot's JID to <new_password> -  any string value
----
{{{
*admin usessl
}}}
Shows "true" if the bot uses SSL-connection and "false" if not.
{{{
*admin usessl true(false)
}}}
Sets if the bot will use (true) SSl-connection or not (false).
----
{{{
*admin port
}}}
Shows the port-number which bot uses to connect  to jabber-server
{{{
*admin port <new_port>
}}}
Sets the port-number to a <new_port> - any real port-number
----
{{{
*admin compression
}}}
Shows "true" if the bot uses Compression of traffic  and "false" if not.
{{{
*admin compression true(false)
}}}
Sets if the bot uses (true) Compression of traffic or not (false)
----
{{{
*admin starttls
}}}
Show "true" if the bot uses Start-Tls when connecting to jabber-server and "false" if not.
{{{
*admin starttls true(false)
}}} 
Sets if the bot uses (true) Start-Tls when connecting to jabber-server or not (false)
----
{{{
*admin nick
}}}
Shows the default nick of the bot, which is used to join chat-rooms as default.
{{{
*admin nick <new_nick>
}}}
Sets the default nick of the bot, which is used to join chat-rooms as default, to <new_nick> -  any string value
----
{{{
*admin lang
}}}
Shows the default language of the bot, with which bot will talk in chat-rooms as default.
{{{
*admin lang <new_lang>
}}}
Sets the default language of the bot ,with which bot will talk in chat-rooms as default, to <new_lang> - an existing language packet.
---